The internet is anything but private—a quick Google search of your name will prove that. But just because our information is out there doesn’t mean we need to give up all notions of privacy. As such, Google is rolling out three new privacy tools starting today to help you protect your personal information on Search.“Results about you” dashboardWhen people google your name, information about your life and work may popup. That’s the nature of the internet. However, if your contact information is appearing in Search, that’s a huge privacy concern. You don’t need to add new spam texts and emails to the ever-growing pile you already deal with.Google’s new “Results about you” dashboard aims to mitigate this problem. The dashboard will report any time it detects your contact information appearing in a Google search, and will offer you options to scrub that data from Google. You can periodically check the dashboard to see if any new data has been found, but Google will also alert you as well. You’ll see the new dashboard in the Google app by tapping your Google account photo, then “Results about you.” You can also access the tool from Google’s official Results about you page.Family SafeSearch control is rolling out worldwideGoogle doesn’t want you to see explicit imagery, by default. If you don’t adjust your settings, or your administrator keeps the default options, all content deemed adult (nudity, graphic sex acts, or sexually explicit material), as well as any content featuring violence or gore, will now be blurred as part of the new SafeSearch. This change is rolling out globally starting this month.You can control this setting at any time on your personal Google Account. On your computer, head to the SafeSearch settings page. On the Google app, head to your Profile picture or initial, then Settings > SafeSearch. From here, choose either “Filter,” “Blur,” or “Off.” Filter blocks these images entirely, and will be the default option if Google thinks you are younger than 18.In addition, you can quickly access parental controls just by searching for them. For example, fire up a new Google search and enter “google parental controls” or “google family link.”Google’s new policy on personal explicit imagesGoogle has had policies in place in the past to help users remove non-consensual explicit imagery from Search (as they should). Now the policy is expanding: You can now remove any personal explicit images you uploaded in the past that you no longer want to appear in Search. This applies even when you aren’t hosting the image yourself anymore: If you uploaded a photo, then deleted it, but someone else is hosting the photo on their site, you can request it to be removed from Search. That only caveat: This policy doesn’t apply to content you’re “currently commercializing.” The image must meet the following requirements:The imagery shows you (or the individual you’re representing) nude, in a sexual act, or an intimate state.You (or the individual you’re representing) didn’t consent to the imagery or the act and it was made publicly available OR the imagery was made available online without your consent.You are not currently being paid for this content online or elsewhere.You can start the removal process from this link.