Reddit has crushed the biggest protest in the site’s history, and some of our favorite third-party Reddit apps no longer work. Even if you didn’t really need any of the features these apps offer, many of them allowed you to browse Reddit without looking at any of its promoted posts. You may want to continue browsing Reddit without viewing any of its ads, though, and there are a few ways to go about it. (On the other hand, if you’ve had enough of Reddit, you should consider switching to other platforms.)Block Reddit ads on your PC or laptopFor those who use Reddit on their PC or laptop, uBlock Origin is the best way to block ads on the site. It’s lightweight and trustworthy, and you can take a moment to change a few settings to make it even more useful. Having said that, uBlock Origin blocks ads on all websites by default. If you want to avoid that and block ads only on Reddit, you can either manually disable uBlock Origin on all other sites or choose a different browser extension such as Reddit Promoted Ad Blocker, which blocks ads only on Reddit.Block Reddit ads on mobileYou can still use certain third-party apps on mobile devices to browse Reddit without promoted posts. Apps such as Narwhal, Relay, Now, Redreader, and Dystopia still work and are ad-free. Some of these apps may ask you to pay a monthly or annual subscription fee to be able to operate with Reddit’s new API fees, but at the time of writing, they are all free and without ads. If you’re looking for more options, you can check this Reddit thread to see if other apps are still working.If you prefer to use Reddit’s mobile website on your iPhone, you can also consider Sink It—a Safari extension that stops Reddit from nagging you to download the app. Although the extension claims to be able to hide promotional content too, it doesn’t always succeed in hiding promoted posts. Still, it makes Reddit’s mobile website usable even if you don’t log in, and that alone makes it worth checking out.Pay for Reddit PremiumIf you don’t want to try third-party Reddit apps and can’t stand ads on the site, you can also consider paying for Reddit Premium. For $5/month or $50/year, you’ll be able to use Reddit on all platforms with no ads. It’s way too expensive for what it offers, but it’s the only other way to remove ads from Reddit’s official apps.